---
title: "Repair or Replace: Evidence of Sequential Diagnostic Decisions on Product Returns"
excerpt: 'with Ziqi Dong, Guangwen Kong, Qiuping Yu'
---
As bike sharing is becoming popular among consumers, these shared bikes are more susceptible to damage due to heavy daily operations. The high maintenance cost for shared bikes has been one of the critical elements of the operation of bike-sharing platforms.

We consider an inspector and a worker sequentially decide whether to replace or repair a broken part of a bike. While replacing the broken part requires an additional cost of new parts for the platform, we find that the bike after repairing instead of replacing serve consumers for a shorter period, and is more likely to be returned to the service center for maintenance again. We empirically find that replacing a part (instead of repairing it) reduces the odds ratio of return by 4.11%. Furthermore, 1 RMB increase in part cost reduces the odds ratio of return by 0.72%.

As the true state of a bike (whether it should be replaced or repaired) is not observable to managers and workers get higher wages when replacing a part than repairing it, they may have an incentive to replace the broken part even if the correct decision is to repair it. We refer to this behavior as over-treatment,  in which the part should be repaired but it gets replaced. The opposite of over-treatment is under-treatment, which refers to that the part should be replaced, but it gets repaired. The over-treatment and under-treatment can both be harmful. While over-treatment results in high costs in new parts. undertreatment results in the high chance of product return.  

We explore whether there is any systemically over-treatment or under-treatment among the inspectors and workers. And do certain pairs of inspectors and workers systemically have over- or under-treatment behaviors? We develop a structural estimation model in which the inspectors and workers form stochastic signals when evaluating the broken part, where the signal is correlated with their skill level and the state of a part. We use the maximum likelihood estimation to estimate the inspectors and workers’ skill level and their tendencies to over- and under under-treatment. We find that the inspector has a higher disutility from over-treatment, and the worker has a higher disutility from under-treatment. Furthermore, the worker has a relatively higher diagnostic skill level than the inspector.

